Welcome back to another episode of Between Sermons.
I'm excited for this conversation.
We get to continue what the message was on Sunday.
We get to kind of turn that into kind of a small group conversation.
We get to dig a little bit deeper, maybe even get a little bit more practical, figure out how we can take what Pastor Carlton taught on Sunday, which was fire.
and really just dive into it.
And so I'm excited today, partially because I didn't preach this message.
I wasn't even in the building on Sunday.
So I feel like I get to just participate in this one and not lead anything.
Taisha, help us get this thing started.
You are definitely going to be the host because you love the Bible.
And I know you're ready to nerd out.
And so I am so glad that I have you and Pastor Carlton here today because I mean, I don't have to talk a lot.
I just slide into questions.
Wait, wait.
So if I'm not talking and you're not talking, that means Carlton's doing all the talking.
No.
I'm down for that.
Come on.
He's going to say something.
Pastor Carlton is going to say something.
And it's going to wake you up instantly.
And I'm going to be like, yes.
And I'm not gonna stop working until I get that moment.
So it is gonna be fun.
We are continuing the conversation about Christian atheists.
The first week you talked about, I believe, I know, well, I believe in God, but do I know?
I don't know him.
And this week we talked about, I believe in God.
I don't trust the Bible.
You don't trust the Bible.
Have you ever had that moment?
Well, I didn't trust the Bible.
Yeah.
No, I think it's because of how I was raised.
I was raised in the church of God and Christ and you know, you're almost taught a blind faith without being a skeptic.
And so from that, you know, being the foundation of my faith, I really didn't have any questions.
Even the weird things I trusted just become from just because of my upbringing, not because
I had a relationship with God and trusted God.
It was more a religion than it was a faith relationship.
Okay.
So I would say that in a bad way, I didn't have that moment where I didn't trust the Bible.
I think I was beaten into trusting the Bible to kids.
So, just how it went.
Yeah.
I think maybe my journey was similar, but maybe a little bit more
Problematic maybe I guess I don't know the right way to phrase that but like I kind of grew up in the same like just believe it because yeah, but then as a as a teenager Start having like questions of like well why and that's that I'm inquisitive by nature and a little bit like just because you tell me something doesn't mean I believe you or trust you And not always just because I think people are malicious, but sometimes I just think people are ignorant of things, right?
I tried that.
I didn't.
Why you gotta laugh?
I didn't mean ignorant is like they're a dummy like ignorance is in.
They don't know.
Right.
Yeah.
So like, uh, so there, there was like a lot of moments in my life, uh, early on when I was like, but why?
Like why do we say this is the Bible?
Why do we say, and I think thankfully for me though, like that.
maybe not trusting or doubting the Bible lasted for about 0.2 seconds.
Cause it was like immediately I was given like answers to questions.
And it was like, well, what about this?
Oh, here you go.
And it's like, oh, okay.
Well, what about this?
Oh, here we go.
Oh, okay.
Like, and so there was just, there was enough people around me at the time that when I had questions or when I had doubts or, you know, with the increase of the internet, you know, there was answers out there.
And so I didn't,
My doubts didn't last very long, I guess, is the best way to put it.
And I really don't think that we should live or work or live or work in a church environment where we think that questioning things about the Bible or about God is wrong.
I think God opens the door for investigation because that's how we get to know Him better.
And I really think growing up in church, it was like, how dare you question this?
And it's like, well, questioning it may bring me closer to knowing who God is.
to a relationship with him.
Absolutely.
And I think it's just wrong for churches to say, OK, well, you can question this.
This is absolute.
And it's absolute.
Like, don't investigate any further.
Right.
Yeah.
No, I think it's honestly, if we believe that what we believe is truth, then we should be able to investigate it.
Right, like you only say don't investigate something when you know it's shady, or you know it's on quicksand.
Don't ask any questions.
You start asking questions, you're gonna poke holes in this thing.
And so, I remember still, as a teenager, my favorite disciple was Thomas.
I love the fact that Thomas, and I felt like I was a little bit of Thomas, and I got offended at people like, oh, doubting Thomas is this negative thing.
It was like, don't you realize, look at every time he questions something.
Look at what the response, like what Jesus said, the truth that we got out of his doubt.
Like when he's like, I don't understand this.
And Jesus is like, boom, like he just drops this beautiful passages.
And it's like, man, we learned so much because Thomas was like, I got a question.
Right, right.
And Thomas's response to once Jesus revealed to him or answered his question.
I mean, he, when he touches Jesus's size, he says, my Lord, my God.
And so he immediately responds with a greater level of faith and understanding of Jesus.
And that statement right there is one of the clearest, most definitive, like Jesus is God.
Yes.
Right.
Because if anyone in Jewish culture would have been in Jesus shoes that isn't God, they would have immediately been like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
You know, you've seen and believe, blessed are those who believe and haven't seen.
Right.
And that's good for us because we take that and we say, OK, well, we are the ones that haven't seen and we believe.
So thank God for Thomas.
I don't know who's trying to call me from Chicago, but.
I'm busy right now.
I didn't put this undoing up to stir my apologies.
In the middle of the podcast, you ruined the podcast.
I clicked decline three times.
They kept calling back immediately like these telemarketers spam likely spam man.
I just want to try to know y'all just did exactly what I was hoping you did that back and forth little combo.
Oh really?
How long did that take?
It didn't take no time.
So this is going to be great.
We're still in the intro.
You're still in.
about doubting Thomas.
Brought my coffee and just set back.
So where do people, before we dive into, because I want to talk about some misconceptions, some common misconceptions about the Bible and it being reliable.
But before we go there, where do you think people get stuck?
Because you said it's okay to have those questions.
And I do know some people in that space where they like have all of these questions, but sometimes they get stuck and they derail like the train goes left and it's like, no.
I think the biggest issue is where do you get your answers from?
Got it.
And so I think a lot of people have the similar questions, but if you just regurgitate what you've heard somebody say online, like if you're getting all of your information from TikTok, you're probably just rehashing old,
issues and things that have been debunked a billion times.
But because it's new for you, you're like, oh, wow, this is this is amazing.
I never knew this before.
This is a huge problem with Christianity.
And it's like, man, that that was an argument like 100 years ago that's been debunked like 87 different ways.
And if you would just read somebody that's actually knowledgeable, right, you actually like talk to a scholar in that area, pick up a book instead of just
you know, user eight, five, seven, nine, three on Tik Tok.
That sounds sketchy already because you don't even got a name.
It's always that stuff though.
And I'm guessing as we get into some of those misconceptions, it'll be stuff that's like, yeah, man, I've seen a video.
I've seen somebody make that claim.
I've heard somebody talk about that.
And here's why it's baseless.
And that's usually how it goes.
I think a lot of times people don't even, they haven't read the Bible.
Yeah.
The Bible knowledge that they get comes from either tic-tac or sermons from the church that they grew up in.
And they haven't actually read the Bible.
And so a lot of pieces that are put together for them is in the Word and they just haven't read through enough or studied the Bible enough.
for them to understand that there's answers to their questions of the text itself.
Yeah, I've got a big, fat book that's like a reference book, so it's not meant to be read through.
You go for study.
that's like answers to Bible contradictions and stuff, like the hardest passages in the Bible.
I mean, it's this fat, thick thing.
And I feel like if more people just took time to read something like that or to take their questions of that, because it's really easy to Google, you know, top, top 10 contradictions in the Bible.
And Google is going to spit out every, every contradiction that seems like it's a big thing.
And yet I
I promise you, there's somebody that can answer every single one of those.
Usually because like in philosophy, an actual contradiction is, what's the way it's being phrased nowadays?
It's a contradiction is when A cannot also be non-A, at the same time in the same way.
And so a lot of times like contradictions and things like that that you're gonna pull up, either it's a misunderstanding, it's taking out a context, or it's saying two totally different things, it just happens to be using a similar word or the same word is translated.
And so it's see here,
Ta-da, yeah, it's like no no no just read it in context two different things talking about two totally different things Yes, it's using a similar word, but it's talking about different.
Yeah So stuff like that you but a lot of contradictions what people think are contradictions aren't contradictions like we look at the Gospels and they may think that you know with you know the Matthew and Mark having a like story, but there is differences in the story itself and it's like well that is
creates more authentication for the story itself because you're looking at it at different angles.
If they were delivering the same story with the exact same details, then like that's- It's collusion.
Yeah, you throw that out immediately.
Yeah, it's like I could be talking to you and tell you that over the weekend I took Bennett to the movies.
I could talk to Ruben and say over the weekend I took Bennett to a soccer tournament.
somebody would be like, that's a contradiction.
The reality is in between games, we were bored, so we went to the movies.
And so like, yeah, I took him to a tournament and he had four hour window of empty space between games and we found a movie that was perfect.
Past your soul will say, well, they were in Iowa.
And it's like, well, how did they go to the movies, go to a tournament and was in Iowa?
It's like, well, all that happened and it all harmonizes.
Right.
But yeah, you could argue those are contradictions.
It's like, no, because not in the same place in the same way at the same time.
Yeah.
Man.
OK, so.
Was that open enough for you?
I have no idea why we jumped on that.
I don't know.
So let's talk about some misconceptions, because I know even listening to the message yesterday, it was definitely convicting for those who struggle with believing parts of the Bible.
The goal wasn't to address
misconceptions necessarily or contradictions.
Okay, it was just to highlight people, you know, you should be reading the Bible.
But yes, I'm sorry.
No, but were you calling those who just believe part of the Bible or like where you saying like you guys have real problems?
Like you are a Christian.
I need you through the Bible is the authority.
Is was that the purpose of the overall mess?
Yes, the by.
Yes, the purpose of the overall message was is to say that the Bible is the authority of our life and our faith.
And then to try to address, you know, high level, some of the issues that people have.
And the things I talked about was culture, moral conflict, where your faith started being, like it starts with an emotional experience.
And then just the basic Bible reliability, which I didn't get into very deeply.
I just gave some high level facts about the Bible.
Okay.
Yeah, because it's like, it's the quote that I overused because I love it so much, but Mark Batterson's whole,
When it comes to knowledge of a divine creator, you either have revelation or speculation.
Either he speaks or we guess.
And I think the problem is, if you accept God but reject God's word, you're left with only speculation.
Now you get to be the authority on who God is, what God likes, what God doesn't like.
And when you put yourself in that place, now you're God, not him.
And so we do have a reverence for God's word because we love God.
And we worship God and how we know God and how we understand God is through his revealed word.
Yeah.
Cause if God has to live up to what you've created God to be, like always talk about this with the God's goodness.
Like if God has to live up to your goodness, then your goodness becomes your God.
Yeah.
Your definition of goodness becomes your God.
And when we have an entire book that gives us the nature of God and the book becomes the authority of what God is like.
not our own definitions or our thoughts about God.
And without the Bible, we can come up with anything with what we want God to be.
And that thing becomes our God.
Because there's been things in my own life where I would never define it as good, in my understanding of good.
However, it was God's goodness in my life, like rejection.
There are times when I didn't get something that I really wanted and I was like, if God was good, he would have given me this thing.
It's actually his goodness that kept him from giving me that thing because
of where it would have taken me or what it would have done in my life and what he actually had for me was good.
But I wouldn't have seen it or accepted it if it wasn't for the blindness.
So like, yeah, you're absolutely right.
When we make goodness our God.
Yeah.
So you had a lot of good one-liters and punches.
I'm going to go through the zingers.
I'm going to go through it and write them out because we definitely need to do something with us.
But no, I think that it really helps drive home the message.
What is some that we remember?
We remember.
Like what?
No.
I know you think.
I had to write two of them down.
They're good.
Two.
I was going to save this for my.
landing the plane moment, since you're there already.
You land the plane.
They're almost back to back, I think.
But one was you'd rather adjust your theology than crucify your flesh.
That one stings.
And the other one was some don't doubt the Bible because it's unclear, but because it's too clear.
That was good.
I was like, ooh.
Come on.
That was good.
It all turned out spicy.
He did.
And yet the only thing I remember was you arguing with the person on YouTube.
Oh, man.
That was a rough one.
What?
I preset in my devotional or taught it in my divo.
That was interesting, man.
I couldn't help myself.
I usually don't comment on YouTube videos.
He has zero comments too.
So I was the only comment and it was just like, I had to say something about that.
I don't know what, if you want to go with this, I didn't, I didn't miss this whole thing.
Oh man.
Okay.
So, okay.
We'll come back to your point.
Did you put it in the first service idea, but I think I explained it a little bit better.
Second service, third service.
So I'm perusing through YouTube and it's this guy.
And this doesn't matter to the story, but I gave him a name.
He's Nigerian, so I call him Bishop Tutu.
So give me all my Nigerian friends.
Pastor Ney is going to be like, listen here.
I know.
So Bishop Tutu is explaining Romans chapter four, verse 17, I believe it is, but he's taking culture.
Cause you know, in culture or these days, we always talk about or the culture is talking about manifesting something for yourself.
And it's pretty much speaking to the universe and the universe will return something back to you.
And I'm like, okay, first of all, who is the universe and what is it?
Like that doesn't make any sense.
But nonetheless, he took the culture of manifesting and interpret scripture with that.
And he was like, we can manifest things in our life.
We can create and he used, you know, when Romans seven to four, 17 says it talks about Abraham's faith and being tied to the God who can bring life to the dead and who can call those things that are not as though they were.
But he replaced God with us.
And he said that we can manifest things in our lives because we can call those things to life that are dead and we can speak those things that are not as though they were.
And I immediately was like, that's not what it says.
Like I was like, I was, I was with you when you were talking about the faith of Abraham.
And then all of a sudden you said that.
And I immediately went to the Bible and I read the scripture and I copied and pasted it.
I highlighted it.
I added the comment to it.
And I was just like, man, like you, you miss God here.
Like we don't have the power to do that.
Our job is to attach our faith to a God who can do that.
Don't use.
language of culture for clicks, for views, and misinterpret the Bible.
I was so furious.
And then he responded, I forget what the verse in Ephesians was where he talked about how we should mimic God.
And the things that we do, but I'm like, no, no, no, that means that says we should mimic God and loving each other.
There's context to that, too.
You can't misinterpret a scripture.
You took a passage out of context and then try to defend it with a passage out of context.
And I was just like, let me just stop with this guy because this will just go on forever.
And then he follows me.
He follows you.
And like, I don't have a channel or anything.
So I'm like, what are you following?
Like, I don't know how this works.
He's rage baiting you.
He was like, you're missing the point.
I'm like, no, you're missing the point.
And like, we're just going back and forth.
I'm like, OK, God, let me just stop.
But the whole idea was that he took culture and tried to interpret scripture with it.
I'm like, no, man.
Like, culture shouldn't adjust how, I think this is the end to your right quote, culture shouldn't adjust how we see the Bible.
The Bible should adjust our culture.
And it's like, this is a perfect example of, and it's funny how
you have an experience of what you're going to preach.
I've already said you want to look at culture through the lens of scripture, not scripture through the lens of culture.
Right, right.
So I was furious about that, but it's just one of those things where it's like, culture can't drive our ideology, it can't drive our identity, it can't drive our theology because culture changes all the time.
Things that are trending, things that we think about our identity or
Society thinks about identity changes all the time, but the word remains firm.
It lasts forever.
It's what we should have our identity in.
It's the authority of our faith in our life.
And that's where we should be not in culture.
So yeah, that was my whole little story about YouTube.
And I was like, I've never commented on YouTube.
I don't know how I miss that.
Ben, I probably had a question about something you said.
I'll blame you, Ben.
Yeah, no.
So I thought that was good.
And I think that's absolutely correct.
Like when I have these conversations with individuals who are struggling with believing the Bible, they're always drawn away by their own desires or just like, I want to have the same power as God.
Like what?
How does it even make sense, you know?
Or, you know, the manifestation thing.
Like, oh my gosh, I hurt so many feelings when I be like,
You can't manifest that, you know what I mean?
There's too many new age culture things that are trying to slip into Christian world.
But it's like has the God not promised us enough?
Yeah.
Is eternity not enough?
What else are we looking for?
You know, we only use the Bible for prosperity and our own personal happiness.
Yeah.
And it's like, why?
Like is our relationship with God not enough?
And in that relationship, he still promises us a life that's abundant.
Yes, we go through trials and hardships, and he teaches us how to go through persecution to grow ourselves in character and endurance.
But Jesus should be enough for us, where we shouldn't be looking at the Bible to supplement happiness and prosperity.
But your point was, what was your first one?
You shouldn't change our theology.
We change our theology instead of crucifying our flesh.
Yeah, that was one where we rather adjust your theology and crucify your flesh.
That was moral conflict.
Yeah.
When there is a moral conflict, we don't like what the Bible says.
We don't like how the Bible wants us to change our life or be transformed in a way.
We would rather say that the Bible is not really saying that.
So we would change the interpretation of the Bible or we dismiss it altogether.
Yeah.
So that was kind of the point in that.
And we see that a lot.
It's like, well,
The Bible really didn't say this or because the language of the Bible doesn't directly speak to the things we do today, then we dismiss the overall or the general principles of the Bible that changed how we live today and how we're transformed as people.
So we just dismiss it or say that it doesn't make sense or the interpretation is wrong.
Yeah, I saw somebody try and argue that the Bible doesn't talk about pornography.
So pornography is fine.
Mm-hmm, right, but that's just stupid Sorry, I don't have a nicer way of saying that Okay, I can't PR that one, but Ignore all the passages about lust and yeah Jesus talking about myself.
It's not like, you know, it's not some kind of Old Testament Proverb like no Jesus spoke on us.
I mentioned in the sermon like what did Jesus say about lust and
And I said this in a sermon, he said, take a fork and jab it in your eye and pull it out.
Like if that's not pornography, and I alluded to pornography because I use the eye and the hand as my example.
Like if your hand causes you to sin.
Cut it off.
You know, I was alluding to masturbation.
Like your eye is watching something and your hand is doing an action.
You should gouge out your eye and cut off your hand.
Yeah.
I was very concerned when you made that statement though, even though it's in the Bible.
What?
When you say, like, take a forking.
I was just like.
I was being dramatic.
I know.
It's just a lot of people nowadays.
You just got to be very careful.
That's true.
Yeah.
OK, people, do not take a forking.
Gals are your eye.
Literal fork.
It was not meant to be a literal instruction.
Please do not.
Like, we just live in a very, like, this world.
No one's going to take that seriously.
I don't know.
Jesus was painting a picture of how extreme this issue is.
You know you can be preaching a sermon and it's like okay you need some points to get people's attention.
So it definitely let me just be girl testing this moment.
I saw the phone calls that they've been are we gonna get
Do I really have to?
Working with the Gen Z population, like they take everything literal.
It's like, if I want to live a better life, let me take this fork.
Look, Taisha, I can't stop.
I'm about to do it.
It's right there about my eye.
Like, no.
No, yeah, yeah.
I think that was a portion of my sermon.
I was talking about things we don't want to give up when there's a moral conflict.
Yeah.
I think one of my favorite ones was lying.
And it came to me.
I think the Holy Spirit gave it to me is that Instagram,
You've been lying on Instagram since you first opened your account.
That was funny.
And it was like the whole life that you're showing off there that you are claiming to live on Instagram is all a lie.
And I don't think that we actually see it as a lie.
I just think we see it as an exaggeration of life.
I feel like that needs to always be unpacked because I mean, there are some people who use Instagram to lie, but there are some people who don't.
Yeah, absolutely.
But when you create
a perception of a lifestyle that you live that's not, it's pretty black and white that it's a lie.
Absolutely there's people on Instagram who are not lying, but it's like when I go through your stories and your reels or however Instagram works, I'm not there, but it's like if you're intentionally showing me a life that you're not actually living, then you are certainly trying to lie.
I agree with that.
So, lust, lying,
Gossip was another one.
Yeah, that's good.
Yeah, you know, we like to share stories and sometimes the stories we're sharing we shouldn't be sharing.
Yeah, you know, so that's good.
Okay, well, I mean, I think you laid a great foundation.
So let's dive into some of those misconceptions that people can have.
So I'm just gonna read them and then you guys chime in.
Okay, so number one.
a misconception about the Bible, the Bible being reliable.
The Bible is just like the telephone game.
A translation of translations of translations has been changed over and over.
Yeah.
I mean, you can speak onto this from a historical standpoint, but I think it'll be hard to say that it's the telephone game because we're not
Well, many translations aren't translating a translation necessarily.
I think we have so many original manuscripts of the Bible that we can, we have translations of the direct Hebrew and Greek text.
And so it's not like we took the King James version and then translated sort of a new living translation, a new living translation that gets translated into the NIV and NIV get translated to ESV.
I don't think that that's how it works.
I think we have so much of original manuscripts
And we have gotten better in understanding the cultural context and the meaning of some of those original languages of the Bible that we can have very good translations now.
Like the ESV is a very good translation.
Yeah, I can remove the word think from that.
Literally, no modern translations are using
modern translations to come up with a new modern translation.
Like every modern translation we have is going back to Greek and Hebrew and Latin manuscripts to bring out the English translation.
The other thing with that is a couple of things.
So the whole purpose of the telephone game is you can only whisper.
Like it's one person at a time.
And there's a kind of an innate thing where like everybody wants something funny to come out.
Like, so they're trying to change things.
So in actual Bible translation, you have the opposite of all of that happening.
Like, you've got people that are trying to be hyper-vigilant to get exactly what was said.
Plus, you've got, so like, if this was the game of telephone, and like, we started with pretty, and pretty whisper something to you, and then you whispered to Carlton, and Carlton whispers to me, and then I whispered it to Reuben, that's the game of telephone.
If this was Bible translations, and you were treating it the same way, then it would be
Pretty says something to Taisha.
Taisha reconfirms with Pretty 17 times to make sure she heard exactly what Pretty said.
Then tells Carlton.
Carlton confirms multiple times with Taisha.
Are you sure this is what she said?
Let me just go back to Pretty.
So then Carlton goes back to Pretty and says, hey, Pretty, is this what you said?
Is this why you said it?
Is this how you said it?
Okay, let me transmit that over to Brent.
Now, Brent hears it now.
I'm reconfirming with Carlton, making sure, okay.
And then I go to Taisha.
Hey, is this what you told to Carlton?
And then I go back to Pretty and say, hey, Pretty,
And that's the actual translation process.
The issue is, this became popularized by a comedian.
And I heard somebody one time say, if you get your theology from a comedian, don't be surprised when it turns out to be a joke.
And so this whole telephone game, that's not how translation works.
And so, yeah, it's one of those, you're gonna see that argument on TikTok, you're gonna see that argument on YouTube.
little shorts and people, like it's a quick little, oh, but it's been translated so many times.
Who knows what it actually says?
Like, do you think we burn the old translation when we make a new one?
Like, we're still going back to source material.
And then we keep discovering, like we just, I think the original manuscript of Isaiah was discovered, and it turns out that it's word for word for what we have.
Not original, but like, I think it's a second century, no, for Isaiah, I forget what century it was.
But yeah, very, very, very early as part of the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And it's, yeah, it's almost carbon copy.
Right.
Yeah.
That was a good analogy with Pretty.
Pretty.
You got to start a telephone game chain.
Let's do it now.
All right.
Number two, Constantine decided what books wait in the Bible.
First, who is
Constantine very old guy very old There's so many different things with Constantine that like so you need we're just using his name for yeah people just use his name because he became a Christian and so people say that well he did it for political power which Christianity was still the minority at the time so if he did it for political power, that's the dumbest ever and
I don't even know what an equivalent to that would be.
That would be like the Republican Party wants to gain political favor, so they're gonna go talk to a mom-and-pop shop in South Bend, Indiana, and that's somehow gonna get them all the clout that they need.
It's weird.
It's one of those where it's like Constantine, that would be the dumbest thing for Constantine to do.
Plus, either the emperor right before Constantine, or the one right before the one before Constantine, just declared himself to be God?
So like, if you want power, like, do what that emperor did.
Just say, I'm God.
And so like, the whole Constantine thing is just, it's a mess.
But Constantine really did become a Christian.
And so people will say, well, he made it the national, like, religion of Rome, which he didn't actually do.
He just made it so that it was no longer illegal for you to be a Christian.
He stopped killing Christians.
And people are like, see, you know, he's just trying to, it's such a dumb argument.
If you know anything about history or Constine, like he had no involvement whatsoever with the canon of scripture had already been chosen before that moment or been identified before that moment.
And so, yeah, Constantine had absolutely nothing to do with any of it.
But like, he gets, his name gets thrown into all kinds of, you can't trust it because it's just Constantine.
Kind of like King James Bible.
You can't trust the Bible because it was just King James and he just wanted, it's like.
He just wanted to put his name in the Bible.
He's like, okay, so can I show you the ESV instead?
Because it's not based on him.
Right.
Oh my gosh.
So, silliness.
Okay.
Number three, the council of Nicaea decided what books belong in the Bible.
Yeah, this is another one.
I don't know if you see this one.
They didn't pick what books were in the Bible.
They didn't talk about the Bible at all.
I think the Bible was picked by popular demand almost, like what books were being read the most by people.
And I think that's a move of the Holy Spirit.
Yeah, we can get into how the canon was actually chosen.
And the basic principle behind the whole canon of Scripture is it is God declared, man discovered, I think is the way a lot of theologians put it.
So it's not that they decided what it was, it was they recognized what God had chosen.
But yeah, so with the whole Nicaea thing, this one shows up a lot.
If you ever watch like GodLogic or some of the other like anti-Muslim apologists, not anti, but like...
Counter.
Yeah, there you go.
Because Muslims will throw that one around a lot.
And then I've seen others that try and use the whole... Well, it's just this Council of Nicaea that just declared the books of the Bible.
The sad part about that or the difficulty with that is we actually have journals from people who were at
those councils who took notes, and none of the meeting notes say anything about the Bible.
The whole purpose of the council was there was a group of people that were trying to declare that Jesus was not God, the Arian group, and so it was basically like they were trying to figure out, okay, how do we articulate things to come against this group?
It took minutes on
What was discussed and why?
And the Bible literally didn't come up in the conversation.
And those meeting notes are preserved.
But somewhere, probably in the last 10 years or so, somebody on the internet decided to say, this is when it actually happened.
Everybody just quotes that guy.
And that guy literally pulled it out of thin air.
How do you guys know this?
Very intrigued.
Out of these little details.
I feel like I'm a Christian atheist.
I'm a Christian atheist because I don't even know these details.
And here's why it's fun for us to do this.
You don't necessarily need to know any of this.
You can be a great Christian and not hear any of these things before or understand any of these things before.
But it's good for us to talk about it too in this space because you're going to have friends that are come to you and be like,
Yeah, but you can't really trust the Bible because it was just it was a term by Constantine and he was a bad emperor anyways.
And it's like, oh, well, how do I respond to that?
Let's go look up, read some books about Constantine and what his role in all of this was.
Yeah.
But the Bible is so alive that I think the message of the Bible transcends any kind of historical conflict that you can come up with.
Like you can have that in mind as you read the Bible and the Bible will touch your heart.
The message of the gospel of Jesus Christ is so powerful that it'll just break through.
This is just my opinion about the power of the Holy Spirit.
It'll just break through any misconceptions that you have or any conflicts that you think you can come up with about the Bible.
So far, a lot of people, I think they just need to read the word and let it speak to you for itself.
Do you need the Holy Spirit to help you read through scripture?
The Holy Spirit is in the scripture.
If you're not a believer, I think that the
Something awakens in you.
I'm saying something awakens in you.
I should be more direct, but I do believe that when you are reading the word, it does come alive to you.
It helps for the Holy spirit to walk you through the Bible.
Like I mentioned, as one of the application points, you know, you pray before and after you read and allow the Holy spirit to open your eyes to what it wants to reveal to you.
But there's so many testimonies of atheists or nonbelievers
who have read the Bible in order maybe to disprove the Bible that the living Word affected them and they've come to Christ.
So in the moments that they are reading the Word as an atheist or agnostic or another faith, they don't have the Holy Spirit necessarily.
But I believe that the Word of God is so powerful that it cuts through all of that.
Yeah.
Okay.
Number four, the Bible was written a hundred of years after the events happened.
False.
So, I mean, some of the events in the Old Testament were written a long time after, but it was like historical.
It was oral tradition kind of being passed down.
But actual writing is within
So we, Old Testament, so Moses writing about Abraham, like there's hundreds of years there.
But when you get to the New Testament, yeah, so it's all within, so between 45, I think is the earliest letter, 45 AD.
and 88, 80, 87, when was the fall of Jerusalem?
87?
Yeah, 87.
87.
So somewhere before 87 is most scholarly consensus.
There's some people that try.
The latest revelation was written by John and like 90 AD.
Yeah, somewhere in there.
The the the gospels were all written before the fall of Jerusalem.
And it's fun.
As prophesied.
So the funny thing is like one of the arguments for why some people will push the dates later.
is that, how do they phrase this?
It's because there's prophecy about the fall of Jerusalem.
It had to have been written after the fall of Jerusalem, so that they could know that Jerusalem was gonna fall.
Yeah, no, that's not how prophecy works.
Yeah, that's not how prophecy works, but that's the secular view.
It's like, well, clearly they had to have written this after this historical event, because they knew the historical event was gonna happen.
And it's like, yeah, no, that's not how, like,
prophecy works in religious circles.
And so you can't use that as definitive proof.
And if you had more evidence, then sure, we'd look at that.
But like when that becomes the main argument for late dating on some of these books, it's weird.
But yeah, so sorry, that was way nerdier than it needed to be.
So yeah, so the actual writing was within the lifetime of eyewitnesses.
So Jesus would have been crucified around 33 AD.
First book is written
about 15, 20 years later, with more being written later all the way up to right around the 80s.
So you're still, you know, if somebody was 20 when Jesus was crucified, they would have been in their 60s or 70s by the time these Gospels were written and some of these other books were written.
And some of them actually there's phrases and there's things that are being mentioned that trace back to within months or even the first couple of years after the crucifixion And so like the the idea that these were written hundreds of years later is just it's false and It everything was written
within the lifespan of people who would have been there.
But what some people will try and argue is that, well, why weren't they written immediately?
Like, why did the Gospel writers wait 30 years before they wrote?
They just crucified the Messiah.
So there was a disbursement.
They were on the run.
Yeah.
So the argument or the answer for why is
First of all, they didn't realize they needed to write anything.
This was all within a community.
They're sharing it.
They're talking to each other.
They're sharing word of mouth.
They're talking about what Jesus did.
People are giving their lives to Jesus without having to have a book or a letter explaining it.
But then time goes on.
They're getting more and more dispersed.
Now, all of a sudden, it's like churches are being planted all over the world really at that point.
And so it's like, OK, we need to communicate these things.
We're looking at Luke because Luke says, hey,
Theophilus, you've heard all these stories.
Let me give you an orderly account.
You've been told all these things.
Let me write it down for you.
And that's really the birth of these gospel accounts and then these other letters.
You think about the occupation of the disciples.
They're not thinking about writing at all.
They're on a mission.
They're running around trying to tell people.
It takes Mark and Luke to start writing.
And then Paul, being a scholar in himself, would naturally start writing letters to churches.
His main point wasn't to write the Bible.
It was to send messages to churches and to cities and to nations.
For how they should be followed.
I don't want to phrase this.
We wouldn't expect them to start writing immediately based on what was happening, how the gospel was being spread, how the churches were being planted, and how the believers were being scattered and persecuted.
And so you actually, the timeline actually makes sense for why some of these writings were happening 20, 30 years after the event.
I mean, think about the events in our own life.
I mean, our life is not equivalent to the Messiah coming.
But we don't naturally think to journal our life.
You know, if you are a writer or you have that mindset or that's part of your profession, you may think that way.
But even our own lives, we don't journal.
the actions, the activities of our life naturally.
And I mean, sorry if this is a crude example, but 20, 30, 40 years after 9-11, if you were to take somebody who was living in New York at the time, who was affected by the towers, if you had them sit down and write about what happened, I'm pretty sure they'd be able to get the details right.
Yeah, absolutely.
And then the cost of writing too, you know, they couldn't just
pull out a notepad and a piano and started writing.
Like the type of material that they needed to write.
And then to the courier cost too, to spread the writings was very expensive.
So it's not, even the more so is not something that they would have naturally thought of in the moment to do.
But the fact that they did it so close to the resurrection of Jesus is amazing in itself, which further proves the accuracy of the Bible.
Which is just love in this.
Yes, this is great podcast right here.
Yeah, no, it is topic.
I picked a topic.
Well, I guess we're we're talking about this.
Yeah, we're continuing the conversation.
All right.
Number five, the gospel writers are anonymous so we can't trust the accounts.
Oh, wow.
I don't think I've heard that one, but that sounds ridiculous.
Oh, I get that one a lot.
Anonymous?
Yeah.
Well, the Gospel, who actually wrote John?
And you'll say, well, John did.
Who's John?
Which John?
How do you know it's John?
Yeah, it's a dumb argument for a few reasons.
One, biographies in that time period didn't have an author attached to it.
Like that was common practice.
at that time in that region, if you're writing an account of something else, you don't put your name on it.
Like it was, that was actually, I think it actually goes to like, oh man, I don't want to say something out of line.
There was a Aristotle or one of those guys, like one of the famous intellectuals of Greece, like actually put together like a, this is how you write biographies.
And I forget who it was.
That's why I'm butchering the details.
But in it, he basically gives like instructions on how you write these things.
And so at that time, you didn't put your name on it.
And the Gospels are appropriate to those guidelines.
Yes, the Gospels match those guidelines, which is interesting in and of itself.
But beyond that, the first century, second century, third century, church father writings never attribute those four Gospels to anyone other than Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
So we're talking, within 50 years of those things being written, everybody is 100% unanimous.
Matthew wrote Matthew, Mark wrote Mark, Luke wrote Luke,
John wrote John.
And it's actually part of the criteria for why other Gospels are rejected because they say, but we don't know who actually wrote that because this writing came about in the second century.
There's no way Judas could have written that because Judas has been dead for a really long time already.
And so we reject that Gospel because it clearly wasn't written by a disciple.
And so like, yeah, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, that's that's who wrote the Gospels.
The document itself may not have their name on it.
but everybody around them was like, yeah, that's who wrote that.
So why would we doubt it?
And it fits with historical practice.
That was good.
God knew what he was doing.
Okay, number six, there were lots of other Gospels that got suppressed.
Oh yeah, I just kind of answered that one.
So there are a bunch of other Gospels.
Some are in the second century.
Most of them are way later than that.
But there's a couple that are attributed to Thomas, which I hate because I love Thomas.
And then people are using his name.
But yeah, several of those.
But those were written to 300 years after the events of Thomas.
Yeah, so there's a couple.
I think there's two other gospels that are in the second century.
But that would have been over 100 years after the person that claims to have written it was dead.
And there's other criteria for why those things
So here's an argument that I often will hear is other Gospels were removed from the canon.
And the actual truth is none of those books were ever a part of.
So nobody actually removed them.
They were just rejected immediately.
Because it was like, I don't know who wrote this, but it doesn't match up with everything else we have written that we know who wrote.
And so there's no reason for us to accept these.
And then if you read some of them, they're absolutely ridiculous.
some of them like they match exactly what people that were anti-christian were trying to claim like one of the gospels is basically like it clearly had to have been written by a muslim that was trying to like to fit jesus into the order in all other stuff and it's just it's so weird and it and that one was written in like the seventh century or eighth century or something
So yeah, it's like clearly in my back pocket Wow, it's just all kinds of stuff There was one here recently that was like written in like the 18th century or something that was trying to claim that it was Like an original and it was just yeah, there's all kinds of it's kind of funny when you get into like some of that scholarly level stuff Stuff that's way above my my pay grade of my my brain power but
Yeah, it's interesting.
There was never any other Gospels included to be removed and nothing was suppressed.
A lot of people wanted to jump on the bandwagon.
It was like if I put a disciple's name on this thing, it gains notoriety, it gains publicity.
And so I'm going to write this thing.
that I'm going to try and use to influence people.
I mean, we got the same thing happening today.
Yeah, for sure.
Right?
Like, there's so many people that are writing crazy books.
If they had the ability to say, you know, Thomas wrote this, they would do it to make a quick buck, to gain, like, authority, right?
Because their name doesn't carry any authority, but this other person's name does.
So I'm going to slap their name on it.
Yeah.
But it's just, yeah.
They're silly.
Wow.
Silly rabbits.
Cooks are for kids.
Sorry, I don't know.
Tisha's trying to join in the conversation but doesn't really know how to fit into this.
It's okay.
I'm going to continue.
Continue answering the questions.
Number seven, the Bible is full of contradictions.
Yeah, we can't answer that.
At this point, he's like, I'm over it.
Yeah, we answered that.
No, no, no.
We did address it.
If you want to talk through, like, textual variants, yes, there are tons of textual variants.
Are there contradictions?
No.
I think the closest thing to a contradiction that you can find in the Bible is usually referred to as a scribal error.
So like, there's one story where it was 1,000 chariots, and that same story is described in another part of the Bible, and it's 10,000 chariots.
And it's like, OK, a scribe missed a zero, or a scribe added a zero.
But does that change the Bible?
Like, does that make it now not trustworthy?
Like, no, obviously not.
And so, yeah, when you get into the supposed contradictions, you're going to find that if just you read it in context, it solves it.
Or if you have a better understanding of what's actually being said.
But yeah, I don't even know if we need to go into like details or these contradictions.
Like the census taken in numbers is different from the accounts of Exodus.
of the multitude.
Right.
And it's like, well, we don't know who exactly they may have not counted all the children.
Yeah, they could have counted in a different way.
Like if if you can, so that I think that's why we mentioned the whole contradiction thing is you can't have a also be non a in the same way and at the same time, like, if you have that understanding of contradiction, then when you find something that
can be explained outside of a contradiction, then it can't be a contradiction.
If there's another plausible explanation for why this says this and that says that, as in maybe that census was actually taken at two different times.
Maybe this guy's census was counting able-bodied men only.
Maybe this person doing the census was counting all people.
Maybe this census was, you know, so there's all kinds of explanation for that.
And then even people like Bart Ehrman,
textual critics that are not Christian, they'll even admit like there's no variation, there's no change in the core message of the Bible.
There's nothing that bears any kind of significance.
It's less than 2% of the textual variants have any significance whatsoever.
Of those 2%, none of them change a core doctrine.
So you've got like the longer ending of Mark, but it doesn't change any core doctrine.
You've got the woman caught in adultery, whether that story was original or not.
And there's great arguments for both ways.
Yeah.
Did Jesus fee $5,000 or $4,000?
Or both?
Maybe he fed $9,000.
Wow.
OK. Jesus.
Yeah.
So it's, it's one of those things where like people, people will find enjoyment in being able to say, see contradiction.
There's an error here.
And it's like, okay, does that, is that error an actual error?
Is that an actual contradiction?
And if it is, does it change something?
And the answer to the first question is 99% of the time, no.
And in the 1%, if you go to the second question, the answer is 100%.
No, it doesn't change anything.
Yeah, is Job a real story, but it was written like poetry?
Yeah.
Does that change the meaning of Job?
Right.
All right.
Yes.
This is great watching you guys go back and forth.
I mean, like the Psalms is written in Hebrew alphabet.
Some of the Psalm chapters are written in Hebrew alphabet form.
It's really neat.
Yeah, it's beautiful.
Like that doesn't change anything.
It actually makes it even more impressive, you know.
I saw somebody one time try to use proverbs as like contradiction, because they're like, proverbs says this, and yet I have an example where that doesn't happen.
It's like you do know that proverbs is written as like words of wisdom.
It's like general truths.
It's like the principle here is, hey, if you do this thing, then most likely the outcome is going to be this.
It's not a promise or a guarantee that 100% of the time is going to happen.
It's like, no, like if you do the right thing, then most of the time right stuff is going to happen.
But it's a contradiction.
No, it's not a contradiction.
You just want to say, I know it.
Just get it out.
So that way we can wrap up the show.
How many more?
Two more?
Three more.
So number eight, the Bible was edited to control people.
No, man, that's really false because if it was edited to control people it was edited poorly Yeah, well the main argument against that is it would be impossible There's too many manuscripts in too many different parts of the world where even now like the Super Brainy guys like they can determine where a variant arrived like a
Like there are variants in manuscripts.
They're like, oh, this originated in Greece or this originated in Turkey or this one originated in Rome in the 18th century.
And it's like, well, how do they know that?
Well, because they can compare the manuscript from this part of the world to this part of the world and the other 5,800 manuscripts that we've got scattered all over the place in those first few centuries.
So like you can, like there's literally no way.
Because if I wanted to change something in the Bible, I would have to collect all of the copies of the Bible from all over the world and change all of them in the exact same way.
Not only that, but then I would go have to sneak into the homes of all of the early Christians and the church fathers who were quoting the scriptures.
And I would have to change their personal journals and their letters to other people.
you know, to make sure that what they were saying matched what I changed the Bible to say.
Like it literally, like even today with our technology, it would be absolutely impossible to do.
And to say that second, third, fourth, when would that have taken place?
It could.
But even the messaging of the Bible doesn't lean towards control by an actual pastor or a prophet or anything.
If anything, you read the Bible, you don't want to be
in the camp of being an elder or a pastor or a prophet.
So we have control over people.
A great example of that is during slavery, they created the slave Bible by editing.
I saw one stat that said 90% of the Old Testament was removed and 50% of the New Testament was removed or altered in order to create the slave Bible.
So it was intentionally designed to never give slaves hope.
So you had to remove all of Exodus.
You can't have any of the Jewish people in bondage and slavery and then being set free by God.
You can't have any of that in there.
You couldn't have anything about Jesus coming to set the captives free.
So you had to edit all these different verses.
And we know that it was changed.
You can look at it and be like, this was changed.
So if we were trying to do something like that on a global scale, it's absolutely impossible.
I'm just going to say this last question we've already answered, but I'll just read it for the fun of it.
The early church voted the books, voted on which books they liked and wanted to keep.
So there was somewhat of a voting that took place.
It wasn't based on what they liked.
I think it was a recognition of what was being read by the.
Yeah.
So they had four or five different criteria, depending on how you break it down.
I don't know if I can rattle it off the top of my head, but it was
apostolic authority, so it had to actually be written by an apostle or somebody that had a direct connection to an apostle.
So like Matthew is direct, John is direct, Luke is tied to Paul, Mark is tied to Peter, right?
And so like you've got that direct attestation and so like you can have trust in it.
Another one was like orthodoxy, like does it actually, inconsistency, like does it match up with the other parts of scripture?
Does this letter match what Jesus was saying?
If it's contradictory, then it can't be written by the Holy Spirit.
And then it was like liturgical use.
So like is it being used in church services?
Like are we referencing it?
Are we quoting it?
Or is it part of our worship expression?
Because if it is, then,
clearly that was ordained by God.
And then another criteria was like, I forget how they phrase it, but it was essentially like life change.
Like does this scripture inspire somebody to live like Christ?
And if it doesn't, then it's not part of scripture.
It might be a good letter, it might be whatever, but scripture's purpose is to make us more like Christ.
And so does this letter actually do that?
And it's easy to identify the power of the Holy Spirit in each level of Christ.
parts area.
Yeah.
And then they did have a historicity.
Like it had to have been from the time of Christ.
Like, uh, so like you couldn't, you couldn't write something in the third century and be like, let's add this to the Bible.
It's like, no, no, no, no.
So they call that the Canon is closed.
Can it, Canon is in like the authority, uh, the authoritative books is the Canon.
And so yeah, the Canon's closed.
You can't write a new part of the Bible today.
That's the fun part about being a pastor, right?
Like you don't get, there's no new stories.
Yes.
I guess the same Bible.
Same Bible.
Wow, that has to be challenging.
I think it always to communicate.
Not at all.
The Bible is so amazing.
Man.
Read it every day for the rest of your life and you're still going to be impressed.
No, I agree.
I was just thinking about like your sermons were already probably taught.
Yeah.
I mean, sometimes like you come up to Christmas, you come up to Easter and it's like, okay,
Everybody knows.
Jesus died, but he rose again.
You already know the punchline.
Right, right.
It works.
But that makes us dive into it deeper and you never know how the Holy Spirit is going to give you a fresh revelation of the word.
That's very true.
That's the fun part.
It's like, man, I read this a, how many times has the passage here you said, I read this a thousand times and I'm just seeing this now.
And it just jumped out of me.
Just one word or phrase.
I think that's great.
That's what make it active and alive.
Yeah, absolutely.
Man, that's great.
So yeah, so I would tell people like with these questions, these things that we went through, there are some great apologists.
There's some great scholars out there that have much better answers than we've got.
This isn't my area of focus.
Like I'm just trying to pastor a church.
But I do nerd out on some of this stuff.
I do enjoy learning and listening and watching and reading and all that.
Like my home library is filled with books that are way beyond my comprehension and I still try.
But like, man, just check the sources, check the people who are giving you answers to these questions to make sure that they know what they're talking about.
So you got anybody you would recommend?
No, you had a thousand as far as like a scholarly source for like to be able to answer some of these questions.
No, not not any not any one particular person.
I think my, you know, my focus is mainly on the message of the Bible and not I haven't, you know, found a group of people or, you know, the resource that answers these questions for me at least.
I just go to Pastor Brent's office and say, Hey, Pastor Brent,
Blah blah blah.
And then I usually just tell you what I heard Wes Huff say.
Wes Huff has been on fire lately.
Wes Huff is popular right now.
He is very popular right now.
But yeah, I like Wes.
I like inspiring philosophy.
He does a lot of research behind all of his stuff.
So when he starts saying something like he's got, he comes with receipts, which I appreciate.
Yeah.
But yeah, there's some other, like Kona has some great books out there.
Yeah, there's some good ones.
Is gotquestion.org or com?
Is it?
Yeah.
Got questions is not bad.
They differ.
I've come across some things that I maybe disagree with a little bit.
Yeah, from our word, non-denominational, but charismatic church, like there's some doctrinal things that we would differ on.
But I think that 90% of what Got Questions is going to answer, I'd probably answer the same way.
OK.
So yeah.
just a few variations, but nothing that would be like deal breaking for me.
Well, I mean, I think this conversation was eye-opening, edifying, encouraging.
I just don't know what to do with this kind of conversation.
I'm just here to watch.
We're going to land that plane.
What's next week's sermon?
I believe in God, but I don't fear Him.
Oh, OK. Oh, that'd be nice.
This was good too.
Don't count yourself out.
This was good.
That's right.
The general conversation goes on.
It's going to be really good.
No, I think I said this before the show.
I think a lot of people are in this space with like the even the conversation about the Bible.
So I think, yes, every week is going to address like some very popular topics that's happening right now.
What's interesting for us personally with this Christian Atheist is a book that was written decade ago.
By Kroger shell, but it did have an impact on me when I first read it all those years ago I think I got it like a week after it came out like it was one of those was like he's got a new one And it really that that was almost a catalyst I would say even to leading to our changing from Christian life serenity disciples church.
It really was this
Man, we claim something that we're not actually living.
And that's really the heart behind that name change.
And if you actually trace back to three years ago when my wife and I became the lead pastors, so many of our messages, so many of our teachings were around that same concept.
stop saying something, start living something.
Like don't be just another Christian, be a disciple of Jesus Christ who's actually devoting their life to actually doing what he said to do.
And so we actually, we changed the name of the church because it was like, man, we're saying it over and over again and people are still like, okay, that's nice.
Like what can we do to just like shake them and wake them up?
And so we made that change.
But like, so this whole, this whole series is, man, it's really near and dear to our heart as a,
as an organization as a church.
I'm a little bummed we're only doing it for three weeks.
I would have been fun to keep going.
Who's stopping us?
You're the lead pastor.
We're going to talk about red flags and relationships.
That's going to be fine.
We're going to the Christmas
No one invites me to those buckets.
Okay.
Add him.
No, just fine.
So now this is a great tool and a great space to just grow in your understanding of like, why is it important to see the Bible as an authority?
I'm not going to close this just yet.
What are your takeaways before we land the plane?
Takeaways from the sermon?
Yeah.
Oh man.
What are my takeaways from the sermon?
Read the Bible.
I think that was my first point of application like reintroduce yourself to the word Because I think that we could get lost in the nuances of the Bible the reliability of the Bible The canon of the Bible and all these other things like just read the Bible open the Bible and read it every day if it's
a verse, a chapter, whatever it takes for you to just sit down and read the Bible.
Whether it's a Bible plan or not a Bible plan, I even mentioned in one of the services, you can just drop the Bible on the ground and let it open up and just start reading.
Like just read the Bible.
It was kind of weird because you'd be opening up in a weird place.
But I think the idea is just like read the Bible because it is a living word, it is alive.
It's not just reading a Dr. Seuss book.
And it's like, oh, that was good information or entertaining, but it is alive as it relates to your life.
God is speaking to your heart and speaking to your life.
It is the instruction manual of our lives.
It's the authority in which we should live by.
And I think if you just start reading it, you'll start to see the Holy Spirit working in your life and opening your eyes to the words of God.
Yeah, beautiful.
It's good.
Yeah, you can add.
Yeah, I think.
My big takeaway for people, maybe this is less for myself, but more for the audience watching right now.
If you want to claim that you're following God, you got to abide by scripture.
You can't accept God and reject God's word.
It doesn't work that way.
So you've got to, if you really love him, love his word.
What did Jesus say?
If you love me, if you want to abide in me, abide in my word, it's just, you can't get away from it.
Stop trying to follow God without following the Bible.
That's good.
My takeaway is whatever they said.
No, it was good.
I think that I love the place that we're in where we are addressing like real life issues as a church.
And so I would just encourage you to rewatch the message from Sunday.
It was really good.
And I won't say have an open heart, but evaluate your heart because I think this whole concept of being a Christian atheist is again to realign us.
with God's Word, His purpose, His plan.
And I just feel like this is a great message in space to really realign us with following love with the Bible.
And so I would just encourage you to rewatch it and spend some time with Jesus.
He will
He will speak with you in this season.
So until next week, if you have any questions, I know we haven't said that in a while, let us know in the comments.
I'm sure.
No, let us know in the comments.
No, you can email me as well.
I'm open, but we would love to spend some time answering those questions before we get started next week.
If you have any from last week or even this week, let us know.
And until next week, we'll see you and I love you.
God bless.